---
date: Oct 19, 2020
author: Camilo Acosta
title: "Automating a PC game with python: Memory Scan"
categories: [Hacking]
tags: [python, cheat-engine, windows]
---

## Intro
Not too long ago, a friend told me that a game we used to play at school was recently brought back to live. This game's name was Tales of Pirates (now renamed as Pirate King Online aka PKO). I felt nostalgic and tempted to play it but I also was hesitant as MMORPG games usually demand lots of time in things like leveling, farming for resources and making money. Since time is gold as they say, I decided to develop a bot with python to help me do the boring stuff for me!

### What the bot does?
- The bot automatically detects when there is a MOB(monster or beast) nearby and attacks it.

- After a defined time in seconds the bot moves to another location in the map.

## Memory Scan
Computer programs are assigned physical or virtual memory space for the normal execution of their processes, all variable values received/sent to the server are somewhere in that memory, meaning that by figuring out the exact address where the game is writing certain value it is possible to feed the bot with that data and act accordingly. That is exactly what I did.

### Scanning Memory with Cheat Engine
in PKO, everytime the cursor hovers over a MOB the icon changes from an arrow to a sword, meaning there is something that can be attacked, this feature is very common in many games. The idea here is to look for the address in memory that reflects this change and read it in python, a similar process can be done for the location.

[Here](https://wiki.cheatengine.org/index.php?title=Cheat_Engine:Memory_Scanning) is the official documentation for CE that explains how it works.

## Reading memory addresses using Python.
ctypes library from python 

```python
import ctypes as ct

def readMemory(self, result, addr):
        kernel32 = ct.windll.kernel32    # use kernel32.dll from windows
        PROCESS_VM_READ = 0x0010 # permissions required to read memory        
        handle = kernel32.OpenProcess(PROCESS_VM_READ, 0, self.pid)
        kernel32.ReadProcessMemory(handle, addr, ct.byref(result), ct.sizeof(result), 0)    
        return result.value
```
