---
date: Dec 02, 2024
author: cacos
title: "EC2 Auto-Healing and Scaling Applications"
categories: [AWS, EC2]
tags: [aws-ec2, fundamentals]
image:
  path: /commons/aws.png
  width: 800
  height: 500
---

##  AWS Well-Architected Pillars

1. Operational excellence
2. Security
3. Reliability
4. Performance Efficiency
5. Cost Optimization
6. Sustainability

More on https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/userguide/intro.html



## Auto Scaling Groups:

- These are groups of EC2 instances managed together as a single unit.
- They automatically adjust the number of instances based on defined conditions.
- Key features include: 
  a. Desired Capacity: The ideal number of instances you want running. 
  b. Minimum Size: The lowest number of instances allowed in the group. 
  c. Maximum Size: The highest number of instances allowed in the group.
- Can scale based on various metrics like CPU utilization, network traffic, etc
- Works with Elastic Load Balancers to distribute traffic across healthy instances
- Provides both auto-healing and horizontal scaling capabilities.

## EC2 Auto-healing:
  
- It automatically detects and replaces unhealthy EC2 instances.
- If an instance fails health checks, it's terminated and a new one is launched to replace it. This ensures your application remains available even if individual instances fail.


> Together, these features ensure your application is resilient to instance failures (auto-healing) and can handle varying loads by automatically adjusting capacity (scaling).
{: .prompt-tip}

## Practice Lab: Auto Scaling

- Create Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling group
- Assign EC2 instances to the Auto Scaling group.


### 1. AMI Creation.
- Select the instance that will be added to the scaling group

```
Click Actions > Image and templates > Create image
```
  
> This is how an AMI is created. This is used as a template to launch new instances with identical configurations.
{: .prompt-tip}

### 2. Create Launch Template

- After the AMI is created go to `Launch Templates` and create one.
- Select AMI, Networking settings, instance type etc.

### 3. Create Auto Scaling Group 

- Now go to `Auto Scaling Groups` and click on create.
- Select the template created before. 
- Select VPC, AZ, Subnets etc. 
- Review and click on create.

> With the tracking scaling policies, you can select a scaling metric (e.g CPU utilization) and set a target value.
{: .prompt-tip}

### 4. Automatic Scaling

- Select the scaling group and look for the tab `Automatic scaling`
- Setup the desired automation or scheduled scalation. 

## Practice Lab: High Available Web Apps

- Configure an Auto Scaling group to use an Application Load Balancer.
- Configure load balancer health checks for the auto scaling group.
- Add a second AZ to the Auto Scaling Group.

### 1. Modify Auto Scaling Group

> Auto Scaling Group concepts. Min and Max capacity define the boundaries for the number of instances allowed. The desired capacity is the initial capacity it attempts to maintain. 
{: .prompt-tip}

- Select Auto Scaling Group and edit Load Balancing from the integration tab.
- For this lab I have selected HTTP/HTTPS and internet facing scheme.

### 2. Create Security Group for load balancer

- To customize the traffic flow between the load balancer and the web servers, I have created a new security group that defines what traffic is allowed.
- Define inbound/outbound rules. 
  
### 3. Modify Security Group of instances

- To improve security we want to accept only the traffic coming from the load balancer. 

### 4. Associate SG to the Load Balancer

- After associating the SG the webapps are no succesfully working behind an Application Load Balancer.

### 5. Target Groups

- The health check of the load balancer can be modified to match performance requirements.

```
http://travelagencywebservers-1-690208332.us-east-1.elb.amazonaws.com/health
```

> The default settings allow 150 seconds to pass (30 second intervals * 5 unhealthy checks) before marking an instance unhealthy. 
{: .prompt-tip}

### 6. Change Networking settings for ASG

- The webapp is no longer needed to be public, add it to a private subnet instead. 

### 7. Testing ASG

- After terminating an instance, a new one is created in the private subnet. 
- Increase desired capacity of ASG to 2
