---
date: Dec 02, 2024
author: cacos
title: "Amazon Elastic File System"
categories: [AWS, ElasticFileSystem]
tags: [aws-efs, fundamentals]
image:
  path: /commons/aws.png
  width: 800
  height: 500
---

## AWS Elastic File System

- Storage Capcity is dynamically provided.
- Fully managed service
- Cost Effective
  

## Practice Lab

- Configure an Amazon EFS file system.
- Mount the file system to an EC2 instance
- Connect a second instance to the same file system.
- Share files between the two EC2 instances
- Finally, add a third instance.

> This lab assumes that the EC2 instances instances are already created.
> {: .prompt-info}


### 1. Create Security Group

- Create a Security Group, will be used for EFS

 > When Creating an EFS we need to attach a security group. This will determine which EC2 instance can access the file system as NFS clients. 
 {: .prompt-tip}

- Select the same VPC and Security Group used for the EC2 instances created above.
- Add Inbound rule NFS and as source select the security group used by the EC2 instances.
   
### 2. Create EFS
- Create the EFS and customize it
- On the Network Access section you will use the Security Group created on the first section of this lab. This controls where the source of incoming traffic can originate. 
- Select the newly created EFS, click attach to review the options. This is what I will use:

```sh
sudo mount -t efs -o tls fs-09cd0b1381362f6c4:/ efs
```
### 3. Attaching the EFS to the EC2 instances and testing

- Connect to the EC2 instance and install `amazon-efs-utils`

> `amazon-efs-utils` is available from Amazon Linux package repositories. 
{: .prompt-tip}

```sh
sudo -i
yum install -y amazon-efs-utils
```

- Mount EFS in the instance

```sh
mkdir data
mount -t efs -o tls fs-09cd0b1381362f6c4:/ data

mount | grep data
127.0.0.1:/ on /root/data type nfs4 (rw,relatime,vers=4.1,rsize=1048576,wsize=1048576,namlen=255,hard,noresvport,proto=tcp,port=20890,timeo=600,retrans=2,sec=sys,clientaddr=127.0.0.1,local_lock=none,addr=127.0.0.1)

head -c 10M /dev/urandom > efs-1-setup.log
```

- Repeat for all instances and validate that the file efs-1-setup.log exists in all of them once the efs is mounted. 






    
 