---
date: Dec 02, 2024
author: cacos
title: "AWS Cloud Security"
categories: [AWS, IAM]
tags: [aws-iam, security, fundamentals]
image:
  path: /commons/aws.png
  width: 800
  height: 500
---

## Key Concepts

- In AWS Data is encrupted from the physical layer starting in the datacenters.
- Addional layers of encryption are available such as with VPC cross-Region peering traffic and service-to-service TLS connections. 
- AWS also features fine-grain identity and access control.
- AWS regulary achieves, thousands of third-party security validations, to meet compliance in major industries such as Retail, Finance, Healthcare and more. 

## Shared Responsibility Model in AWS

Depending on the service that a customer of AWS decides to use, the responsibilities may vary. 

- Customer is reponsible for the security IN the cloud.
- AWS is responsible for the security OF the cloud.

More on https://aws.amazon.com/compliance/shared-responsibility-model

## IAM Best Practices

- Use an IAM Role provides temporary security crendentials for the role session. e.g. Distributing long term credentials to an application that runs on EC2 to grant access to AWS resources is not recommended, as it can be harder to manage and a potential security issue. Instead it is better to assign it an IAM Role. 
- IAM users are still appropiate in certain scenarios. e.g. For individuals who need direct access to the AWS Console, SysAdmins, or Integrations with third-party resources that don't support IAM roles. 
- When possible, it is best to use IAM roles for applications and services to simplify management and enhance security. 

Learn to use AWS IAM Analyzer on https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/what-is-access-analyzer.html


## Practice Lab

- Create an IAM group and users
- Attach AWS policy to a group of users

1. Create `IAM User Group` and attach a policy.
2. Create `IAM User` with AWS console access enabled and add a tag to it. 
   1. Tags can help manage large amount of users in the future. 
   2. For extra security add MFA.





